Let's look at some other methods on optional now, the following table displays many of them the first
one method signature.
And keep in mind that these are simplified for readability, if present turn tops forward and the parameter
is consumer.
So if a values present performs a given action with a value, otherwise does nothing, we've got present
or else the method signature turns void if present or else the parameters are a consumer and a runnable.
So the values present reforms are given action with a value otherwise performed to give an empty based
action.
Next method name is or the method signature, an optional type T or a supplier, so if the values present,
then it returns an optional describing the value otherwise returns an optional produced by the supplying
function.
Or else is the next method, method, signature return type T method, name, or else as the parameter
is T for value is present returns the value otherwise returns other other being the parameters of type
T.
Or else it is the next method name the method signature return type is T or scale.
Again, it's a method name.
Parameter is supplier.
If a valve is present, returns to value otherwise returns the result produced by the supplying function
or else through method signature return type T or else Traugott is the method name.
If a value is present, returns the value otherwise authorized no such element exception and the last
one the overloaded method or else throw.
This is where there is a supplier passed as a parameter.
If a valve is present, returns the value otherwise throws an exception produced by the exception supplying
function.
Well, let's continue with the current example now would like a list of all students, even those with
no GPA.
I will assume that an unknown GPA means the student is studying his or her college career in good standing.
Before we change this.
Let's run this to see the results we got at the end of the last video.
You can see we're only getting Joe back in good standing.
That's because Jane was to find a alternative for us having no GPA.
That's how it's changed since that's coming out, this one from the last video.
Who will replace it?
This code.
So this segment of remove the filter from the pipeline now and instead of executing the dot all method
on the optional return from the old method, the DOT all method returns an optional created by the supply
path to it, if the value of the optional it's invoked on is empty.
In other words, it's contained value is no.
So in this case, for students with no GPA, a temporary option was passed back with a 2.0 floating
value, allowing the calculation about a student in good standing to be used from the other method.
And then if the option has a value in the supplier code is not used or executed, and I'm printing out
the value of genuine change after this code so that you can confirm that the old method, when not assigned
back to the originating optional, has no effect on the original optional state.
So let's run this and check the results.
We can say they're Joe in good standing, Jane in good standing there, we've got Joe's GPA three point
two and Jane's GPA is still empty.
Let's make a little bit of a change here.
I'm going to replace just the DOT or a line 60 to cut that out and replace it as follows.
Here, what I'm doing is adding a system that are typewritten to the lambda expression, so this is
a little ugly, but executing it as we're doing now gives us the following output.
So I can say there that the print statement was only executed for Jane, so this is important to remember
the method or will not execute the supplier code if the option of executing it is not empty.
Now, let's look at the Orioles and the Orioles get methods and luck, the your method, these methods
return a value of the same type contained by the optional and not an optional.
The Orioles methods argument is the same type as that contained in the optional, whereas the Orioles
get method takes a supplier an argument.
So let's replace our popcorn character again with a comment that allowed.
And replace it with the following.
So you can see there that you see the Orioles simplifies the code a bit, allowing you to use simple
flight values passed to the Orioles method and returned from the Orioles method.
If we run this.
You can see the output from this, it is the same as it was previously.
All right.
So next, let's add a method to our class.
How optional test class or LABROT in the bottom here.
Say it's a very, very simple method of turning a floating point value of 2.0, as well as printing
a message to cyber in the method.
Now we want to go back up and edit out or else.
So instead of having this hard coded value or else 2.0, we could change that to to be optional.
Get an estimate.
If you run this.
You can say when you're getting output from the get estimate method, basically we can say that that
method was invoked in either case, whether the optional GPA attribute was empty or not yet occurred.
Again, let's try replacing orals with or else throw one or two just coming out that line, replace
it with thought or else throw.
We're on this card now.
You can say that now or else throw simply throws a no such exception when the value in the optional
GPA is now, as it was, of course, for Jane.
But finally now let's repeat the test with Oreo's get, which is similar to or else except it takes
a supplier of type to interface instead of a value of the specified type T.
So what we want to do is comment at the orals throw.
And replace that the thought or else get it's going to be optional tests, Colin, Colin, get estimate
running the code.
There's the output knighting this time that unlike or else the supply code was not invoked for Jane
when using the Orioles get method.
All right, so let's review these three methods in a single table, because if you don't use them often,
the differences can be a bit hard to memorize.
Firstly, the old method, the return type is optional of typed the argument type to supply returns,
optional of type T, the behavior of the argument as a method or lambda expression slash method.
Reference supply is invoked only if the invoking optional value is no or else return type of type t
the argument type is of type T or method which returns something of type T if method the methods executed
regardless of invoking optional value being null or not.
Then we got the third one there or else get return type is also t the argument top is a supply which
returns something of type t the behavior.
The supply is invoked only if the invoking optional value is no.
I'll be discussing the other methods on the optional class in the context of the terminal operations.
Find any and find first which return an optional.
In addition, I'll be reviewing any match or match a non-match, those methods on stream which each
return a billion value.
So let's move on now to the next video.